The Italian Renaissance was all about
bringing back ancient Rome
>> [music]
>> and applying the knowledge and
techniques that ancient Romans had on
art and architecture. And eventually
Italian Renaissance reached monarchical
France.
So just like every Roman emperor liked
to build their own forum in the eternal
city,
every king of France liked to build
their own square with an equestrian
statue of themselves in the center.
The purpose of most of these squares was
to develop the growth of the city in new
areas and glorifying the monarchy with
an equestrian statue of the king in the
center of the square.
An equestrian statue is a statue of a
man on horseback.
The word derives from the Latin word for
horse, equus. And in ancient Rome,
equestrian statues commonly depicted
military leaders, particularly Roman
emperors.
Most of them were melted down in the
Middle Ages to reuse [music] the bronze
for coins and church bells.
The only equestrian statue that remains
from ancient Rome is a statue of Emperor
Marcus Aurelius in the Piazza del
Campidoglio in Rome. People in the
Middle Ages thought it was a statue of
Constantine, so they didn't destroy it.